image_state/README.md, before:

# Image State

**Description:**

retrieves all open files in Honeyview, creates script that opens said files on execution.

**History:**

i usually have a bunch of images open. i want to close them about as much as i want to close browser tabs. sometimes i have to/end up closing them. more often, windows explorer decides it's time to die and i lose my stuff. in any case i wanted a way to go back to where i was. ideally, it would be a bookmark system, except on the desktop. something that opened images and folders.

was poking around in powershell last time with [[wget generator](https://github.com/meiyaismywaifu/utilities/tree/main/wget_generator)]. my understanding was everything that controlled windows had to pass through CMD or powershell. complained to friends about microsoft's Introduction to Powershell making my eyes glaze over, was pointed at python. something something python something libraries and APIs something something something. i don't understand what's going on. but apparently you can make windows do things outside CMD and powershell. between the known hellhole and the unknown hellhole at least python was easier to read. i've never touched python before.

psutil's docs were alright. took some fiddling to find the filename and path from Honeyview. i thought it'd be under [open_files()] but that returned empty. apparently there's a definition of "open file" that isn't the obvious one. in any case it was found. windows folders / explorer.exe's were not found. psutil's apparently strongest retrieval is [as_dict()] and it returned nothing. apparently something to do with COM. which is supposedly covered by pywin32 / win32api. but that made my eyes glaze over. i think i looked at some other things too but they were worse and i already forgot them.

more broadly though it doesn't seem standard, either how psutil retrieves, or how processes run, opening files. in trying these two diagnostics on other things i'd want to restore, foobar2000 was the only other one that gave a usable return. does there exist another diagnostic that retrieves names/paths of open files? what is it? how would i have found it? it wasn't on the first several pages of google or stackexchange.

in other words, that i use Honeyview as my image viewer was a large part of why this effort connected.

considered making a folder of shortcuts versus a script. i thought it would be nice to have a GUI (Good User Interface). but it was nicer that i had already tested that [startfile()] worked, and generating scripts was a Known, versus who knows what it'd take to make shortcuts. decided to decide on difficulty of implementing error messages, since shortcuts autogenerate errors and the script stopped opening images if it failed. it turned out making these error messages was trivial.

well, i still think it would be nice. maybe some other time.

**Format/Usage/Notes:**

Running generator script while at least one Honeyview instance is open will generate a script in its own directory. Running generator script while no Honeyview instances are open will generate nothing.

Output script can be moved and renamed.

It's possible that other image viewers or other programs/filetypes can use this. Find one of their PIDs in Task Manager, then run

```python
p = psutil.Process(12345)
print(p.open_files())
print(p.as_dict())
```

If a name/path turns up, you're in luck. Find the exact name of the process [p.name()] and replace it in line 51. If the name/path is in [open_files()] or elsewhere with a bunch of junk, it'll have to be filtered. If there is no junk and the filename-path is in position 1 of [.cmdline()[]], then hopefully, that's all you need to do.

**Author System Environment:**

- Python 3.9.4 on Windows 10. this script uses [[os.startfile()](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html#os.startfile)].
- [[psutil](https://pypi.org/project/psutil/)] 5.8.0.
- Honeyview 5.18.

Commit message:

IS now saves explorer states

image_state/README.md, after:

# Image State

**Description:**

retrieves all open Explorer windows, all Explorer windows with files selected, all open files in Honeyview, and creates script that reopens them on execution.

**History:**

###### 21_04_13

i usually have a bunch of images open. i want to close them about as much as i want to close browser tabs. sometimes i have to/end up closing them. more often, windows explorer decides it's time to die and i lose my stuff. in any case i wanted a way to go back to where i was. ideally, it would be a bookmark system, except on the desktop. something that opened images and folders.

was poking around in powershell last time with [[wget generator](https://github.com/meiyaismywaifu/utilities/tree/main/wget_generator)]. my understanding was everything that controlled windows had to pass through CMD or powershell. complained to friends about microsoft's Introduction to Powershell making my eyes glaze over, was pointed at python. something something python something libraries and APIs something something something. i don't understand what's going on. but apparently you can make windows do things outside CMD and powershell. between the known hellhole and the unknown hellhole at least python was easier to read. i've never touched python before.

psutil's docs were alright. took some fiddling to find the filename and path from Honeyview. i thought it'd be under [open_files()] but that returned empty. apparently there's a definition of "open file" that isn't the obvious one. in any case it was found. windows folders / explorer.exe's were not found. psutil's apparently strongest retrieval is [as_dict()] and it returned nothing. apparently something to do with COM. which is supposedly covered by pywin32 / win32api. but that made my eyes glaze over. i think i looked at some other things too but they were worse and i already forgot them.

more broadly though it doesn't seem standard, either how psutil retrieves, or how processes run, opening files. in trying these two diagnostics on other things i'd want to restore, foobar2000 was the only other one that gave a usable return. does there exist another diagnostic that retrieves names/paths of open files? what is it? how would i have found it? it wasn't on the first several pages of google or stackexchange.

in other words, that i use Honeyview as my image viewer was a large part of why this effort connected.

considered making a folder of shortcuts versus a script. i thought it would be nice to have a GUI (Good User Interface). but it was nicer that i had already tested that [startfile()] worked, and generating scripts was a Known, versus who knows what it'd take to make shortcuts. decided to decide on difficulty of implementing error messages, since shortcuts autogenerate errors and the script stopped opening images if it failed. it turned out making these error messages was trivial.

well, i still think it would be nice. maybe some other time.

###### 21_04_17

now retrieves explorer windows. and explorer windows with files selected.

by two entirely different paths. copied from two (probably) entirely different people with a difference in more than 10 years (2003 and 2017). well, they might not be that different. but i think i don't want to find out.

the second guy wrote python but said he's from C++, and linked to documentation for the relevant API. or so he said. i have no idea how to read it. these methods he called, are they in python library documentation or windows shell documentation? i searched both at multiple points and found nothing. even without looking for anything in particular these docs are non-navigable. search does not help either. pick up a method name from the docs themselves, give it to search, i cannot find my way back. do people really read this stuff and learn new things? do people really use help() and dir() or whatever and that's all they need? i don't believe it for a second. how else would they do it? i have no idea.

the concept of reading official documentation for application programming interfaces so you can program your application to this and that interface is beautiful. the actual implementation of this is uhhhhhh fucking trash. and searching google instead is fishing in a sea of trash. which as it turns out is better, because sometimes you actually catch some fish. but i'd rather not be there in the first place. because it sucks.

why am i here again? oh yeah, to try and make it suck a bit less.

well, it makes sense that things that suck are made via paths that suck. which are made by p-

**Format/Usage/Notes:**

Running generator script while at least one Explorer or Honeyview instance is open will generate a script in its own directory. Running generator script while no instances are open will generate nothing.

Output script can be moved and renamed.

It's possible that other image viewers or other programs/filetypes can use this. Find one of their PIDs in Task Manager, then run

```python
p = psutil.Process(12345)
print(p.open_files())
print(p.as_dict())
```

If a name/path turns up, you're in luck. Find the exact name of the process [p.name()] and replace it on line 51. If the name/path is in [open_files()] or elsewhere with a bunch of junk, it'll have to be filtered. If there is no junk and the filename-path is in position 1 of [.cmdline()[]], then hopefully, that's all you need to do.

On line 69 there exists [time.sleep(3)]. This is the delay I've found that reliably re-opens Explorer at the selected files. Lower values cause the folders to be opened without selection. The process is already a block so it shouldn't be starting the next one until it's complete. But this is what I've found necessary.

**Author System Environment:**

- Python 3.9.4 on Windows 10.
- [[psutil](https://pypi.org/project/psutil/)] 5.8.0.
- [[pywin32](https://github.com/mhammond/pywin32)] 300.
- Honeyview 5.18.
